+++
date = 2017-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.

title = "Contextualizing Sensitivity Analysis in Observational Studies: Calculating Bias Factors for Known Covariates"
time_start = 2017-08-01T10:30:00
time_end = 2017-08-01T11:15:00
abstract = "The strength of evidence provided by epidemiological and observational studies is inherently limited by the potential for unmeasured confounding. While methods exist to quantify the potential effect of a specified unmeasured confounder, these methods should be anchored and contextualized within each study. We put forward a method for merging sensitivity to unmeasured confounding analyses with the impacts of the observed covariates. We graphically display what we call the observed bias factors with the tipping point sensitivity analysis. We illustrate the method under various study designs and provide an application created to simplify the implementation of this methodology."
abstract_short = ""
event = "ASA Joint Statistical Meeting 2017"
event_url = "https://ww2.amstat.org/meetings/jsm/2017"
location = "Baltimore, Maryland"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = "http://rpubs.com/lucymcgowan/jsm2017"
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

url_custom = [{name = "Poster", url = "http://rpubs.com/lucymcgowan/jsm2017_poster"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

<iframe src="https://rpubs.com/lucymcgowan/jsm2017" width="595" height="485" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no" style="border:1px solid #CCC; border-width:1px; margin-bottom:5px; max-width: 100%;" allowfullscreen> </iframe> 
