+++
## Generated by the R package lazyacademic
## Do not edit directly, edit the Google Sheet (id = 1HPQDH3tOXtZb1DV--8wR9CKAzUz5aywWc2vM3OQ5SrU)

title = "Secondary consent to biospecimen use in a prostate cancer biorepository"
date = 2016-07-18T00:00:00
authors = ["BF Drake, K Brown, **L D'Agostino McGowan**, J Haslag-Minoff, KA Kaphingst"]
publication_types = ["2"]

publication = "In *BMC Research Notes*"

abstract = "**Background**<br>Biorepository research has substantial societal benefits. This is one of the few studies to focus on male willingness to allow future research use of biospecimens.<br>**Methods**<br>This study analyzed the future research consent questions from a prostate cancer biorepository study (N = 1931). The consent form asked two questions regarding use of samples in future studies (1) without and (2) with protected health information (PHI). Yes to both questions of use of samples was categorized as Yes-Always; Yes to without and No to with PHI was categorized as Yes-Conditional; No to without PHI was categorized as Never. We analyzed this outcome to determine significant predictors for consent to Yes-Always vs. Yes-Conditional.<br>**Results**<br>99.33 % consented to future use of samples; 88.19 % consented to future use without PHI, and among those men 10.2 % consented to future use with PHI. Comparing Yes Always and Yes Conditional responses, bivariate analyses showed that race, family history, stage of cancer, and grade of cancer (Gleason), were significant at the α = 0.05 level. Using stepwise multivariable logistic regression, we found that African–American men were significantly more likely to respond Yes Always when compared to White men (p < 0.001). Those with a family history of prostate cancer were significantly more likely to respond Yes Always (p = 0.002).<br>**Conclusions**<br>There is general willingness to consent to future use of specimens without PHI among men."

selected = false

url_pdf = "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4949745/pdf/13104_2016_Article_2159.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
