---
## Generated by the R package lazyapero
## Do not edit directly, edit the Google Sheet [id = 1HPQDH3tOXtZb1DV--8wR9CKAzUz5aywWc2vM3OQ5SrU]
title: "Second-generation p-values: Improved rigor, reproducibility, & transparency in statistical analyses"
author: "JD Blume, **L D'Agostino McGowan**, WD Dupont, RA Greevy"
date: 2018-03-22T00:00:00
link_out: false
i: NA
categories:
 - Peer Reviewed Article
links:
- icon: link
  icon_pack: fas
  name: link
  url: http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0188299

- icon: file
  icon_pack: fas
  name: pdf
  url: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5863943/pdf/pone.0188299.pdf

---

Verifying that a statistically significant result is scientifically meaningful is not only good scientific practice, it is a natural way to control the Type I error rate. Here we introduce a novel extension of the p-value—a second-generation p-value ($p_δ$)–that formally accounts for scientific relevance and leverages this natural Type I Error control. The approach relies on a pre-specified interval null hypothesis that represents the collection of effect sizes that are scientifically uninteresting or are practically null. The second-generation p-value is the proportion of data-supported hypotheses that are also null hypotheses. As such, second-generation p-values indicate when the data are compatible with null hypotheses ($p_δ$ = 1), or with alternative hypotheses ($p_δ$ = 0), or when the data are inconclusive (0 < $p_δ$ < 1). Moreover, second-generation p-values provide a proper scientific adjustment for multiple comparisons and reduce false discovery rates. This is an advance for environments rich in data, where traditional p-value adjustments are needlessly punitive. Second-generation p-values promote transparency, rigor and reproducibility of scientific results by a priori specifying which candidate hypotheses are practically meaningful and by providing a more reliable statistical summary of when the data are compatible with alternative or null hypotheses.

